Concept article: Decentralized Storage (#43)
web3-storage/docs: docs/concepts/decentralized-storage.md

---
title: Decentralized storage
description: Lorem ipsum
---

# Decentralized storage

> _Decentralized storage_ is a technique for storing data which uses a distributed, networked system with many participants to provide storage capacity, rather than traditional servers. This model inherently builds in redundancy that provides resilience against failure and interference, as well as enhanced performance due to the localized nature of the distributed storage providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Decentralized storage_ is a technique for storing data which uses a distributed network with many participants providing storage capacity, rather than traditional servers. This model inherently builds in redundancy that provides resilience against failure and attacks, as well as enhanced performance due to the localized nature of the distributed storage providers.
```

## Content persistence

> Broadly speaking, today's web browsing operates through what is known as _location addressing_. Location addressing retrieves online information from specific locations on the web ─ i.e. from behind URLs. However, this has downsides. Location addressing is _centralized_, which means that whoever controls that location controls the content, and that one location can change the content, take it away, or just fail to provide service one day. This means location-based addresses are vulnerable to interference, exploitation, and loss.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Broadly speaking, today's web browsing operates through what is known as _location addressing_. Location addressing retrieves online information from specific locations on the web ─ i.e. from behind URLs. 

```
https://example.com/page-one.html
```

However, this has downsides. Location addressing is _centralized_, meaning whoever controls that location controls the content. The controller can change the content, completely replace it, or just take it away. This means location-based addresses are vulnerable to attacks, exploitation, and loss.
````

> To decentralize this system, one part of the problem is to implement a new kind of addressing solution, called [_content addressing_](./content-addressing.md). Content addressing is the technique of granting each piece of data a Content ID (CID), which is a token derived directly from the file contents using an algorithm that will always generate the same key for the same content. As a result, we no longer need to coordinate among multiple writers to our store by splitting the key space into domains and locations on file systems. There's now one universal domain — the domain of all possible values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To decentralize this system, one part of the problem is to implement a new kind of addressing solution, called [_content addressing_](./content-addressing.md). Content addressing is the technique of granting each piece of data a Content ID (CID), which is a token derived directly from the file contents using an algorithm that will always generate the same key for the same content.
```

I meant to include this in my review earlier - must have pressed the wrong button. Anyway, this sentence feels a bit out of place here, imo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To decentralize this system, one part of the problem is to implement a new kind of addressing solution, called [_content addressing_](./content-addressing.md). Content addressing is the technique of granting each piece of data a content identifier (CID), which is a token derived directly from the file contents using an algorithm that will always generate the same key for the same content.
```

The same as @yusefnapora's suggestion, but changed _Content ID_ to _content identifier_.

Author: Thanks guys, merged Johnny's version which also fixed "content identifier"

> Web3.Storage uses CIDs generated by the InterPlanetary File System (IPFS) to enable content addressing for all data stored in its network. However, this is only part of the solution. Just because we have a CID, this doesn't mean that data is guaranteed to be around forever. In a decentralized system, participants all need to agree to be good actors and provide reliable storage capacity. For this, Web3.Storage uses the Filecoin network. The Filecoin network and its namesake token (FIL) was created to incentivize storage providers to agree to _storage deals_. These deals specify that a certain amount of storage capacity will be  provided over an agreed upon period of time, ensuring _content persistence_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Web3.Storage uses CIDs generated by the InterPlanetary File System (IPFS) to enable content addressing for all data stored in its network. However, this is only part of the solution. Just because we have a CID, this doesn't mean that data is guaranteed to be around forever. In a decentralized system, participants all need to agree to be good actors and provide reliable storage capacity. Web3.Storage uses the Filecoin network. The Filecoin network was created to incentivize storage providers to agree to _storage deals_. These deals specify that a certain amount of storage capacity will be  provided over an agreed upon period of time, ensuring _content persistence_.
```

Author: Talked about this one over Slack, resolving

> ## Under the hood: Filecoin for verifiable content persistence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using Filecoin for verifiable content persistence
```

> The Filecoin network ensures that the content-based addressing provided by IPFS remains resilient over time by making sure that content remains available for retrieval. Filecoin achieves this mission through [novel cryptography, consensus protocols, and game-theoretic incentives](https://filecoin.io/blog/posts/filecoin-features-verifiable-storage/). At the heart of it all is Filecoin's unique approach to storage verification.

Reviewer: > At the heart of it

What is _it_, in this case?

Author: It's just an idiom: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/it%20all

> Filecoin's storage verification system solves a previously intractable problem for decentralized storage: How can storage providers _prove_ that they are really storing the data they say they are through time and that they are dedicating unique physical space to it? Filecoin's [proving algorithms](https://filecoin.io/blog/posts/what-sets-us-apart-filecoin-s-proof-system/) take care of this verification. _Proof-of-Replication_ proves that a given storage provider is storing a physically unique copy of a client's original data, while _Proof-of-Spacetime_ proves that the client's data is stored continuously over time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filecoin's storage verification system solves a previously intractable problem for decentralized storage: How can storage providers _prove_ that they are really storing the data they say they are through time? Filecoin's [proving algorithms](https://filecoin.io/blog/posts/what-sets-us-apart-filecoin-s-proof-system/) take care of this verification. _Proof-of-Replication_ proves that a given storage provider is storing a unique copy of a client's original data, while _Proof-of-Spacetime_ proves that the client's data is stored continuously over time.
```

Feels weird to say _physically_ when we're talking about digital stuff.

In addition to this proof system, the Filecoin network also relies on game-theoretic incentives to discourage malicious or negligent activity. All Filecoin storage providers must provide collateral in the form of FIL when agreeing to a storage deal to become providers. Any storage provider that fails Proof-of-Spacetime checks is penalized, loses a portion of their collateral, and is eventually prevented from offering storage to clients again.

> ## Put in practice: Storing and monitoring with Web3.Storage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Storing and monitoring with Web3.Storage
```

> When a file is [uploaded to Web3.Storage with the `put()` method](../how-tos/store.md), a CID is returned, providing the content address for your file on the network, provided by IPFS. Then, the file is put into a queue for geographically distributed storage providers on the Filecoin network who have been chosen for performance and availability. These providers bid on the right to store those files and agree to a storage deal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a file is [uploaded to Web3.Storage with the `put()` method](../how-tos/store.md), a CID is returned. The file is then put into a queue for geographically distributed storage providers on the Filecoin network who have been chosen for performance and availability. These providers bid on the right to store those files and agree to a storage deal.
```

You can monitor this activity for your files by [calling `status()` and providing your CID](../how-tos/query.md). This will return a list of deals that have been made at the time of query.

```javascript
// get files from form object
const fileInput = document.querySelector('input[type="file"]')

// store files, obtain CID
const rootCid = await client.put(fileInput.files, {
  name: 'my files',
  maxRetries: 3
})

// query status based on CID
const info = await client.status(rootCid)

// display results of query
console.log(`${info.cid} ${info.dagSize} ${info.created}`)
for (const deal of info.deals) {
  console.log(`${deal.id} -- ${deal.status}`)
}
```

## Summary

> The traditional location-addressed, centrally stored web is vulnerable to interference, exploitation, and loss. By decentralizing both the way we specify a resource we are interested in with content addressing, and the way we obtain storage capacity with Filecoin, we have a complete solution for locating, storing, and obtaining data that is resilient against these vulnerabilities, and rewards network participants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Traditional, location-addressed, centrally stored networks are vulnerable to interference, exploitation, and loss. By decentralizing the way we specify a resource we want with content addressing and the way we obtain storage capacity with Filecoin, we have a complete solution for locating, storing, and obtaining data that is resilient against these vulnerabilities, and rewards network participants.
```

> Web3.Storage combines both the content addressing capabilities of IPFS and the proving algorithms and storage deal marketplace of Filecoin to achieve this complete solution, wrapping the power of these two systems into simple method calls such as [`put()`](../how-tos/store.md), [`get()`](../how-tos/retrieve.md), and [`status()`](../how-tos/query.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Web3.Storage combines both the content addressing capabilities of IPFS and the proving algorithms and storage deal marketplace of Filecoin to achieve this complete solution, wrapping the power of these two systems into simple methods such as [`put()`](../how-tos/store.md), [`get()`](../how-tos/retrieve.md), and [`status()`](../how-tos/query.md).
```
